Lighties creation conditions:
- Some are created at start-up (highlanders, can't be killed)
- When the organism is fed 5 seconds apart (see bio.LSystem)
- When a leaf needs to be removed

Homeostasis:
- Tries to maintain the frame rate above 24 fps
- Render all cells and leaves static by painting them to the background FBO, thus reducing the amount of objects that has to be drawn each frame.
- Hunt and eat idle lighties.

Control of cell growth:


Cellular differentiation:


Sensing and reacting to the environment:


Inhibitory field:
- Existing cells and leafs prevent new structure to overlap

Cell communication:

Bibliography:
- D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson, 1918, "On Growth and Form", Pioneered the use of physical mechanisms and mathematical models to explain morphogenesis
- Erwin Schrödinger, 1944, "What is life?", On the physical nature of life, the idea of "order-from-disorder"
- Alan Turing, 1952, "THE CHEMICAL BASIS OF MOKPHOGENESIS", role of reaction-diffusion in morphogenesis
- Hans Meinhardt, 1982, "Models of biological pattern formation"
- Ken Perlin, 1983, "Perlin noise", a gradient noise generation algorithm to produce more natural textures
http://www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/research/emeriti/hans-meinhardt/home.html

Conference:
	EvoMUSART: International Conference on Evolutionary and Biologically Inspired Music, Sound, Art and Design
	Deadline: 1 November 2015
	30 March - 1 April 2016, Porto, Protugal
	http://www.evostar.org/2016/cfp_evomusart.php



Making Mimodek:

Present the process of creating a bio-digital system, reflects on the challenges and insights that came with
its technical design and implementation.

Build up of complexity through order and disorder (cf. Shrödinger):

Complexity arise from the interaction of simple behaviours. Due to the experimental nature of the design of the system,
these behaviours are not added following a well thought out plan, but rather as ideas arise. Furthermore, the inception of
these ideas come mostly from evaluating how the system behaves, and therefore there is natural feedback loop mechanism
integrated in the design process.

At the implementation level, this approach brings interesting challenges. Indeed, since the form and behaviour of the system are not
rigid in time but evolutionary, the code has to be constantly modified to implement the changing shape of the design. This aspect
of the project has prompted the use of an open software architecture, that gives the ability to easily add and remove modules.

The use of version control tools has greatly eased the process, because they precisely allow to maintain and work on several versions
of the code. Even the concepts that these tools are based upon - branching, merging - evoke the evolutionary nature of making Mimodek. 

Pathways of communication between the different logical components of the software have naturally appeared, like they would in a biological
system. For instance, there is one module akin to a central nervous system that deals with the coordination of the components, but
communication between modules also happens outside of this command center.

How to include the audience?


